README.md, before:

## Neural Style Transfer (optimization method) :computer: + :art: = :heart:
This repo contains a concise PyTorch implementation of the original NST paper (:link: [Gatys et al.](https://www.cv-foundation.org/openaccess/content_cvpr_2016/papers/Gatys_Image_Style_Transfer_CVPR_2016_paper.pdf)).

It's an accompanying repository for [this video series on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=S78LQebx6jo&list=PLBoQnSflObcmbfshq9oNs41vODgXG-608).

<p align="left">
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=S78LQebx6jo" target="_blank"><img src="https://img.youtube.com/vi/S78LQebx6jo/0.jpg" 
alt="NST Intro" width="480" height="360" border="10" /></a>
</p>

### What is NST algorithm?
The algorithm transfers style from one input image (the style image) onto another input image (the content image) using CNN nets (usually VGG-16/19) and gives a composite, stylized image out which keeps the content from the content image but takes the style from the style image.

<p align="center">
<img src="data/examples/bridge/green_bridge_vg_la_cafe_o_lbfgs_i_content_h_500_m_vgg19_cw_100000.0_sw_30000.0_tv_1.0.jpg" width="570"/>
<img src="data/examples/bridge/content_style.jpg" width="260"/>
</p>

### Why yet another NST repo?
It's the **cleanest and most concise** NST repo that I know of + it's written in **PyTorch!** :heart:

Most of NST repos were written in TensorFlow (before it even had L-BFGS optimizer) and torch (obsolete framework, used Lua) and are overly complicated often times including multiple functionalities (video, static image, color transfer, etc.) in 1 repo and exposing 100 parameters over command-line (out of which maybe 5 or 6 may actually be used on a regular basis).

## Examples

Transfering style gives beautiful artistic results:

<p align="center">
<img src="data/examples/bridge/green_bridge_vg_starry_night_o_lbfgs_i_content_h_500_m_vgg19_cw_100000.0_sw_30000.0_tv_1.0_resized.jpg" width="270px">
<img src="data/examples/bridge/green_bridge_edtaonisl_o_lbfgs_i_content_h_500_m_vgg19_cw_100000.0_sw_30000.0_tv_1.0_resized.jpg" width="270px">
<img src="data/examples/bridge/green_bridge_wave_crop_o_lbfgs_i_content_h_500_m_vgg19_cw_100000.0_sw_30000.0_tv_1.0_resized.jpg" width="270px">

<img src="data/examples/lion/lion_candy_o_lbfgs_i_content_h_500_m_vgg19_cw_100000.0_sw_30000.0_tv_1.0_resized.jpg" width="270px">
<img src="data/examples/lion/lion_edtaonisl_o_lbfgs_i_content_h_500_m_vgg19_cw_100000.0_sw_30000.0_tv_1.0_resized.jpg" width="270px">
<img src="data/examples/lion/lion_vg_la_cafe_o_lbfgs_i_content_h_500_m_vgg19_cw_100000.0_sw_30000.0_tv_1.0_resized.jpg" width="270px">
</p>

And here are some results coupled with their style:

<p align="center">
<img src="data/examples/figures/figures_ben_giles_o_lbfgs_i_content_h_500_m_vgg19_cw_100000.0_sw_30000.0_tv_1.0_resized.jpg" width="400px">
<img src="data/style-images/ben_giles.jpg" width="267px">

<img src="data/examples/figures/figures_wave_crop_o_lbfgs_i_content_h_500_m_vgg19_cw_100000.0_sw_30000.0_tv_1.0_resized.jpg" width="400px">
<img src="data/style-images/wave_crop.jpg" width="267px">

<img src="data/examples/figures/figures_vg_wheat_field_w_350_m_vgg19_cw_100000.0_sw_300000.0_tv_1.0_resized.jpg" width="400px">
<img src="data/style-images/vg_wheat_field_cropped.jpg" width="267px">

<img src="data/examples/figures/figures_vg_starry_night_w_350_m_vgg19_cw_100000.0_sw_30000.0_tv_1.0_resized.jpg" width="400px">
<img src="data/style-images/vg_starry_night_resized.jpg" width="267px">
</p>

*Note: all of the stylized images were produced by me (using this repo), credits for original image artists [are given bellow](#acknowledgements).*

### Content/Style tradeoff

Changing style weight gives you less or more style on the final image, assuming you keep the content weight constant. <br/>
I did increments of 10 here for style weight (1e1, 1e2, 1e3, 1e4), while keeping content weight at constant 1e5, and I used random image as initialization image. 

<p align="center">
<img src="data/examples/style-tradeoff/figures_vg_starry_night_o_lbfgs_i_random_h_352_m_vgg19_cw_100000.0_sw_10.0_tv_1.0_resized.jpg" width="200px">
<img src="data/examples/style-tradeoff/figures_vg_starry_night_o_lbfgs_i_random_h_352_m_vgg19_cw_100000.0_sw_100.0_tv_1.0_resized.jpg" width="200px">
<img src="data/examples/style-tradeoff/figures_vg_starry_night_o_lbfgs_i_random_h_352_m_vgg19_cw_100000.0_sw_1000.0_tv_1.0_resized.jpg" width="200px">
<img src="data/examples/style-tradeoff/figures_vg_starry_night_o_lbfgs_i_random_h_352_m_vgg19_cw_100000.0_sw_10000.0_tv_1.0_resized.jpg" width="200px">
</p>

### Impact of total variation (tv) loss

Rarely explained, the total variation loss i.e. it's corresponding weight controls the smoothness of the image. <br/>
I also did increments of 10 here (1e1, 1e4, 1e5, 1e6) and I used content image as initialization image.

<p align="center">
<img src="data/examples/tv-tradeoff/figures_candy_o_lbfgs_i_content_h_350_m_vgg19_cw_100000.0_sw_30000.0_tv_10.0_resized.jpg" width="200px">
<img src="data/examples/tv-tradeoff/figures_candy_o_lbfgs_i_content_h_350_m_vgg19_cw_100000.0_sw_30000.0_tv_10000.0_resized.jpg" width="200px">
<img src="data/examples/tv-tradeoff/figures_candy_o_lbfgs_i_content_h_350_m_vgg19_cw_100000.0_sw_30000.0_tv_100000.0_resized.jpg" width="200px">
<img src="data/examples/tv-tradeoff/figures_candy_o_lbfgs_i_content_h_350_m_vgg19_cw_100000.0_sw_30000.0_tv_1000000.0_resized.jpg" width="200px">
</p>

### Optimization initialization

Starting with different initialization images: noise (white or gaussian), content and style leads to different results. <br/>
Empirically content image gives the best results as explored in [this research paper](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1602.07188.pdf) also. <br/>
Here you can see results for content, random and style initialization in that order (left to right):

<p align="center">
<img src="data/examples/init_methods/golden_gate_vg_la_cafe_o_lbfgs_i_content_h_500_m_vgg19_cw_100000.0_sw_30000.0_tv_1.0_resized.jpg" width="270px">
<img src="data/examples/init_methods/golden_gate_vg_la_cafe_o_lbfgs_i_random_h_500_m_vgg19_cw_100000.0_sw_1000.0_tv_1.0_resized.jpg" width="270px">
<img src="data/examples/init_methods/golden_gate_vg_la_cafe_o_lbfgs_i_style_h_500_m_vgg19_cw_100000.0_sw_10.0_tv_0.1_resized.jpg" width="270px">
</p>

You can also see that with style initialization we had some content from the artwork leaking directly into our output.

### Famous "Figure 3" reconstruction

Finally if I haven't included this portion you couldn't say that I've successfully reproduced the [original paper]((https://www.cv-foundation.org/openaccess/content_cvpr_2016/papers/Gatys_Image_Style_Transfer_CVPR_2016_paper.pdf)) (laughs in Python):

<p align="center">
<img src="data/examples/gatys_reconstruction/tubingen.jpg" width="300px">
<img src="data/examples/gatys_reconstruction/tubingen_shipwreck_o_lbfgs_i_random_h_400_m_vgg19_cw_100000.0_sw_200.0_tv_1.0_resized.jpg" width="300px">
<img src="data/examples/gatys_reconstruction/tubingen_starry-night_o_lbfgs_i_content_h_400_m_vgg19_cw_100000.0_sw_30000.0_tv_1.0.jpg" width="300px">

<img src="data/examples/gatys_reconstruction/tubingen_the_scream_o_lbfgs_i_random_h_400_m_vgg19_cw_100000.0_sw_300.0_tv_1.0.jpg" width="300px">
<img src="data/examples/gatys_reconstruction/tubingen_seated-nude_o_lbfgs_i_random_h_400_m_vgg19_cw_100000.0_sw_2000.0_tv_1.0.jpg" width="300px">
<img src="data/examples/gatys_reconstruction/tubingen_kandinsky_o_lbfgs_i_content_h_400_m_vgg19_cw_100000.0_sw_30000.0_tv_1.0.jpg" width="300px">
</p>

I haven't give it much effort results can be much nicer.

### Content reconstruction

If we only use the content (perceptual) loss and try to minimize that objective function this is what we get (starting from noise):

<p align="center">
<img src="data/examples/content_reconstruction/0000.jpg" width="200px">
<img src="data/examples/content_reconstruction/0026.jpg" width="200px">
<img src="data/examples/content_reconstruction/0070.jpg" width="200px">
<img src="data/examples/content_reconstruction/0509.jpg" width="200px">
</p>

In steps 0, 26, 70 and 509 of the L-BFGS numerical optimizer, using layer relu3_1 for content representation.<br/> 
Check-out [this section](#reconstruct-image-from-representation) if you want to play with this.

### Style reconstruction

We can do the same thing for style (on the left is the original art image "Candy") starting from noise:

<p align="center">
<img src="data/examples/style_reconstruction/candy.jpg" width="200px">
<img src="data/examples/style_reconstruction/0045.jpg" width="200px">
<img src="data/examples/style_reconstruction/0129.jpg" width="200px">
<img src="data/examples/style_reconstruction/0510.jpg" width="200px">
</p>

In steps 45, 129 and 510 of the L-BFGS using layers relu1_1, relu2_1, relu3_1, relu4_1 and relu5_1 for style representation.

## Setup

1. Open Anaconda Prompt and navigate into project directory `cd path_to_repo`
2. Run `conda env create` (while in project directory)
3. Run `activate pytorch-nst`

That's it! It should work out-of-the-box executing environment.yml file which deals with dependencies.

-----

PyTorch package will pull some version of CUDA with it, but it is highly recommended that you install system-wide CUDA beforehand, mostly because of GPU drivers. I also recommend using Miniconda installer as a way to get conda on your system. 

Follow through points 1 and 2 of [this setup](https://github.com/Petlja/PSIML/blob/master/docs/MachineSetup.md) and use the most up-to-date versions of Miniconda (Python 3.7) and CUDA/cuDNN.
(I recommend CUDA 10.1 as it is compatible with PyTorch 1.4, which is used in this repo, and newest compatible cuDNN)

## Usage

1. Copy content images to the default content image directory: `/data/content-images/`
2. Copy style images to the default style image directory: `/data/style-images/`
3. Run `python neural_style_transfer.py --content_img_name <content-img-name> --style_img_name <style-img-name>`

It's that easy. For more advanced usage take a look at the code it's (hopefully) self-explanatory (if you speak Python ^^).

Or take a look at [this accompanying YouTube video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XWMwdkaLFsI), it explains how to use this repo in greater detail.

Just run it! So that you can get something like this: :heart:
<p align="center">
<img src="data/examples/taj_mahal/taj_mahal_ben_giles_o_lbfgs_i_content_h_500_m_vgg19_cw_100000.0_sw_30000.0_tv_1.0.jpg" width="615px">
</p>

### Debugging/Experimenting

Q: L-BFGS can't run on my computer it takes too much GPU VRAM?<br/>
A: Set Adam as your default and take a look at the code for initial style/content/tv weights you should use as a start point.

Q: Output image looks too much like style image?<br/>
A: Decrease style weight or take a look at the table of weights (in neural_style_transfer.py), which I've included, that works.

Q: There is too much noise (image is not smooth)?<br/>
A: Increase total variation (tv) weight (usually by multiples of 10, again the table is your friend here or just experiment yourself).

### Reconstruct image from representation

I've also included a file that will help you better understand how the algorithm works and what the neural net sees.<br/>
What it does is that it allows you to visualize content **(feature maps)** and style representations **(Gram matrices)**.<br/>
It will also reconstruct either only style or content using those representations and corresponding model that produces them. <br/> 

Just run this:<br/>
`reconstruct_image_from_representation.py --should_reconstruct_content <Bool> --should_visualize_representation <Bool>`
<br/><br/>
And that's it! --should_visualize_representation if set to True will visualize these for you<br/>
--should_reconstruct_content picks between style and content reconstruction

Here are some feature maps (relu1_1, VGG 19) as well as a Gram matrix (relu2_1, VGG 19) for Van Gogh's famous [starry night](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Starry_Night):

<p align="center">
<img src="data/examples/fms_gram/fm_vgg19_relu1_1_0005_resized.jpg" width="200px">
<img src="data/examples/fms_gram/fm_vgg19_relu1_1_0046_resized.jpg" width="200px">
<img src="data/examples/fms_gram/fm_vgg19_relu1_1_0058_resized.jpg" width="200px">
<img src="data/examples/fms_gram/gram_vgg19_relu2_1_0001.jpg" width="200px">
</p>

No more dark magic.

## Acknowledgements

I found these repos useful: (while developing this one)
* [fast_neural_style](https://github.com/pytorch/examples/tree/master/fast_neural_style) (PyTorch, feed-forward method)
* [neural-style-tf](https://github.com/cysmith/neural-style-tf/) (TensorFlow, optimization method)
* [neural-style](https://github.com/anishathalye/neural-style/) (TensorFlow, optimization method)

I found some of the content/style images I was using here:
* [style/artistic images](https://www.rawpixel.com/board/537381/vincent-van-gogh-free-original-public-domain-paintings?sort=curated&mode=shop&page=1)
* [awesome figures pic](https://www.pexels.com/photo/action-android-device-electronics-595804/)
* [awesome bridge pic](https://www.pexels.com/photo/gray-bridge-and-trees-814499/)

Other images are now already classics in the NST world.

## Citation

If you find this code useful for your research, please cite the following:

```
@misc{Gordić2020nst,
  author = {Gordić, Aleksa},
  title = {pytorch-neural-style-transfer},
  year = {2020},
  publisher = {GitHub},
  journal = {GitHub repository},
  howpublished = {\url{https://github.com/gordicaleksa/pytorch-neural-style-transfer}},
}
```

## Connect with me

If you'd love to have some more AI-related content in your life :nerd_face:, consider:
* Subscribing to my YouTube channel [The AI Epiphany](https://www.youtube.com/c/TheAiEpiphany) :bell:
* Follow me on [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/aleksagordic/) and [Twitter](https://twitter.com/gordic_aleksa) :bulb:
* Follow me on [Medium](https://gordicaleksa.medium.com/) :books: :heart:

## Licence

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://github.com/gordicaleksa/pytorch-neural-style-transfer/blob/master/LICENCE)

Commit message:

Add example in README
fix #3

README.md, after:

## Neural Style Transfer (optimization method) :computer: + :art: = :heart:
This repo contains a concise PyTorch implementation of the original NST paper (:link: [Gatys et al.](https://www.cv-foundation.org/openaccess/content_cvpr_2016/papers/Gatys_Image_Style_Transfer_CVPR_2016_paper.pdf)).

It's an accompanying repository for [this video series on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=S78LQebx6jo&list=PLBoQnSflObcmbfshq9oNs41vODgXG-608).

<p align="left">
<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=S78LQebx6jo" target="_blank"><img src="https://img.youtube.com/vi/S78LQebx6jo/0.jpg"
alt="NST Intro" width="480" height="360" border="10" /></a>
</p>

### What is NST algorithm?
The algorithm transfers style from one input image (the style image) onto another input image (the content image) using CNN nets (usually VGG-16/19) and gives a composite, stylized image out which keeps the content from the content image but takes the style from the style image.

<p align="center">
<img src="data/examples/bridge/green_bridge_vg_la_cafe_o_lbfgs_i_content_h_500_m_vgg19_cw_100000.0_sw_30000.0_tv_1.0.jpg" width="570"/>
<img src="data/examples/bridge/content_style.jpg" width="260"/>
</p>

### Why yet another NST repo?
It's the **cleanest and most concise** NST repo that I know of + it's written in **PyTorch!** :heart:

Most of NST repos were written in TensorFlow (before it even had L-BFGS optimizer) and torch (obsolete framework, used Lua) and are overly complicated often times including multiple functionalities (video, static image, color transfer, etc.) in 1 repo and exposing 100 parameters over command-line (out of which maybe 5 or 6 may actually be used on a regular basis).

## Examples

Transfering style gives beautiful artistic results:

<p align="center">
<img src="data/examples/bridge/green_bridge_vg_starry_night_o_lbfgs_i_content_h_500_m_vgg19_cw_100000.0_sw_30000.0_tv_1.0_resized.jpg" width="270px">
<img src="data/examples/bridge/green_bridge_edtaonisl_o_lbfgs_i_content_h_500_m_vgg19_cw_100000.0_sw_30000.0_tv_1.0_resized.jpg" width="270px">
<img src="data/examples/bridge/green_bridge_wave_crop_o_lbfgs_i_content_h_500_m_vgg19_cw_100000.0_sw_30000.0_tv_1.0_resized.jpg" width="270px">

<img src="data/examples/lion/lion_candy_o_lbfgs_i_content_h_500_m_vgg19_cw_100000.0_sw_30000.0_tv_1.0_resized.jpg" width="270px">
<img src="data/examples/lion/lion_edtaonisl_o_lbfgs_i_content_h_500_m_vgg19_cw_100000.0_sw_30000.0_tv_1.0_resized.jpg" width="270px">
<img src="data/examples/lion/lion_vg_la_cafe_o_lbfgs_i_content_h_500_m_vgg19_cw_100000.0_sw_30000.0_tv_1.0_resized.jpg" width="270px">
</p>

And here are some results coupled with their style:

<p align="center">
<img src="data/examples/figures/figures_ben_giles_o_lbfgs_i_content_h_500_m_vgg19_cw_100000.0_sw_30000.0_tv_1.0_resized.jpg" width="400px">
<img src="data/style-images/ben_giles.jpg" width="267px">

<img src="data/examples/figures/figures_wave_crop_o_lbfgs_i_content_h_500_m_vgg19_cw_100000.0_sw_30000.0_tv_1.0_resized.jpg" width="400px">
<img src="data/style-images/wave_crop.jpg" width="267px">

<img src="data/examples/figures/figures_vg_wheat_field_w_350_m_vgg19_cw_100000.0_sw_300000.0_tv_1.0_resized.jpg" width="400px">
<img src="data/style-images/vg_wheat_field_cropped.jpg" width="267px">

<img src="data/examples/figures/figures_vg_starry_night_w_350_m_vgg19_cw_100000.0_sw_30000.0_tv_1.0_resized.jpg" width="400px">
<img src="data/style-images/vg_starry_night_resized.jpg" width="267px">
</p>

*Note: all of the stylized images were produced by me (using this repo), credits for original image artists [are given bellow](#acknowledgements).*

### Content/Style tradeoff

Changing style weight gives you less or more style on the final image, assuming you keep the content weight constant. <br/>
I did increments of 10 here for style weight (1e1, 1e2, 1e3, 1e4), while keeping content weight at constant 1e5, and I used random image as initialization image.

<p align="center">
<img src="data/examples/style-tradeoff/figures_vg_starry_night_o_lbfgs_i_random_h_352_m_vgg19_cw_100000.0_sw_10.0_tv_1.0_resized.jpg" width="200px">
<img src="data/examples/style-tradeoff/figures_vg_starry_night_o_lbfgs_i_random_h_352_m_vgg19_cw_100000.0_sw_100.0_tv_1.0_resized.jpg" width="200px">
<img src="data/examples/style-tradeoff/figures_vg_starry_night_o_lbfgs_i_random_h_352_m_vgg19_cw_100000.0_sw_1000.0_tv_1.0_resized.jpg" width="200px">
<img src="data/examples/style-tradeoff/figures_vg_starry_night_o_lbfgs_i_random_h_352_m_vgg19_cw_100000.0_sw_10000.0_tv_1.0_resized.jpg" width="200px">
</p>

### Impact of total variation (tv) loss

Rarely explained, the total variation loss i.e. it's corresponding weight controls the smoothness of the image. <br/>
I also did increments of 10 here (1e1, 1e4, 1e5, 1e6) and I used content image as initialization image.

<p align="center">
<img src="data/examples/tv-tradeoff/figures_candy_o_lbfgs_i_content_h_350_m_vgg19_cw_100000.0_sw_30000.0_tv_10.0_resized.jpg" width="200px">
<img src="data/examples/tv-tradeoff/figures_candy_o_lbfgs_i_content_h_350_m_vgg19_cw_100000.0_sw_30000.0_tv_10000.0_resized.jpg" width="200px">
<img src="data/examples/tv-tradeoff/figures_candy_o_lbfgs_i_content_h_350_m_vgg19_cw_100000.0_sw_30000.0_tv_100000.0_resized.jpg" width="200px">
<img src="data/examples/tv-tradeoff/figures_candy_o_lbfgs_i_content_h_350_m_vgg19_cw_100000.0_sw_30000.0_tv_1000000.0_resized.jpg" width="200px">
</p>

### Optimization initialization

Starting with different initialization images: noise (white or gaussian), content and style leads to different results. <br/>
Empirically content image gives the best results as explored in [this research paper](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1602.07188.pdf) also. <br/>
Here you can see results for content, random and style initialization in that order (left to right):

<p align="center">
<img src="data/examples/init_methods/golden_gate_vg_la_cafe_o_lbfgs_i_content_h_500_m_vgg19_cw_100000.0_sw_30000.0_tv_1.0_resized.jpg" width="270px">
<img src="data/examples/init_methods/golden_gate_vg_la_cafe_o_lbfgs_i_random_h_500_m_vgg19_cw_100000.0_sw_1000.0_tv_1.0_resized.jpg" width="270px">
<img src="data/examples/init_methods/golden_gate_vg_la_cafe_o_lbfgs_i_style_h_500_m_vgg19_cw_100000.0_sw_10.0_tv_0.1_resized.jpg" width="270px">
</p>

You can also see that with style initialization we had some content from the artwork leaking directly into our output.

### Famous "Figure 3" reconstruction

Finally if I haven't included this portion you couldn't say that I've successfully reproduced the [original paper]((https://www.cv-foundation.org/openaccess/content_cvpr_2016/papers/Gatys_Image_Style_Transfer_CVPR_2016_paper.pdf)) (laughs in Python):

<p align="center">
<img src="data/examples/gatys_reconstruction/tubingen.jpg" width="300px">
<img src="data/examples/gatys_reconstruction/tubingen_shipwreck_o_lbfgs_i_random_h_400_m_vgg19_cw_100000.0_sw_200.0_tv_1.0_resized.jpg" width="300px">
<img src="data/examples/gatys_reconstruction/tubingen_starry-night_o_lbfgs_i_content_h_400_m_vgg19_cw_100000.0_sw_30000.0_tv_1.0.jpg" width="300px">

<img src="data/examples/gatys_reconstruction/tubingen_the_scream_o_lbfgs_i_random_h_400_m_vgg19_cw_100000.0_sw_300.0_tv_1.0.jpg" width="300px">
<img src="data/examples/gatys_reconstruction/tubingen_seated-nude_o_lbfgs_i_random_h_400_m_vgg19_cw_100000.0_sw_2000.0_tv_1.0.jpg" width="300px">
<img src="data/examples/gatys_reconstruction/tubingen_kandinsky_o_lbfgs_i_content_h_400_m_vgg19_cw_100000.0_sw_30000.0_tv_1.0.jpg" width="300px">
</p>

I haven't give it much effort results can be much nicer.

### Content reconstruction

If we only use the content (perceptual) loss and try to minimize that objective function this is what we get (starting from noise):

<p align="center">
<img src="data/examples/content_reconstruction/0000.jpg" width="200px">
<img src="data/examples/content_reconstruction/0026.jpg" width="200px">
<img src="data/examples/content_reconstruction/0070.jpg" width="200px">
<img src="data/examples/content_reconstruction/0509.jpg" width="200px">
</p>

In steps 0, 26, 70 and 509 of the L-BFGS numerical optimizer, using layer relu3_1 for content representation.<br/>
Check-out [this section](#reconstruct-image-from-representation) if you want to play with this.

### Style reconstruction

We can do the same thing for style (on the left is the original art image "Candy") starting from noise:

<p align="center">
<img src="data/examples/style_reconstruction/candy.jpg" width="200px">
<img src="data/examples/style_reconstruction/0045.jpg" width="200px">
<img src="data/examples/style_reconstruction/0129.jpg" width="200px">
<img src="data/examples/style_reconstruction/0510.jpg" width="200px">
</p>

In steps 45, 129 and 510 of the L-BFGS using layers relu1_1, relu2_1, relu3_1, relu4_1 and relu5_1 for style representation.

## Setup

1. Open Anaconda Prompt and navigate into project directory `cd path_to_repo`
2. Run `conda env create` (while in project directory)
3. Run `activate pytorch-nst`

That's it! It should work out-of-the-box executing environment.yml file which deals with dependencies.

-----

PyTorch package will pull some version of CUDA with it, but it is highly recommended that you install system-wide CUDA beforehand, mostly because of GPU drivers. I also recommend using Miniconda installer as a way to get conda on your system.

Follow through points 1 and 2 of [this setup](https://github.com/Petlja/PSIML/blob/master/docs/MachineSetup.md) and use the most up-to-date versions of Miniconda (Python 3.7) and CUDA/cuDNN.
(I recommend CUDA 10.1 as it is compatible with PyTorch 1.4, which is used in this repo, and newest compatible cuDNN)

## Usage

1. Copy content images to the default content image directory: `/data/content-images/`
2. Copy style images to the default style image directory: `/data/style-images/`
3. Run `python neural_style_transfer.py --content_img_name <content-img-name> --style_img_name <style-img-name>`

It's that easy. For more advanced usage take a look at the code it's (hopefully) self-explanatory (if you speak Python ^^).

Or take a look at [this accompanying YouTube video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XWMwdkaLFsI), it explains how to use this repo in greater detail.

Just run it! So that you can get something like this: :heart:
<p align="center">
<img src="data/examples/taj_mahal/taj_mahal_ben_giles_o_lbfgs_i_content_h_500_m_vgg19_cw_100000.0_sw_30000.0_tv_1.0.jpg" width="615px">
</p>

### Debugging/Experimenting

Q: L-BFGS can't run on my computer it takes too much GPU VRAM?<br/>
A: Set Adam as your default and take a look at the code for initial style/content/tv weights you should use as a start point.

Q: Output image looks too much like style image?<br/>
A: Decrease style weight or take a look at the table of weights (in neural_style_transfer.py), which I've included, that works.

Q: There is too much noise (image is not smooth)?<br/>
A: Increase total variation (tv) weight (usually by multiples of 10, again the table is your friend here or just experiment yourself).

### Reconstruct image from representation

I've also included a file that will help you better understand how the algorithm works and what the neural net sees.<br/>
What it does is that it allows you to visualize content **(feature maps)** and style representations **(Gram matrices)**.<br/>
It will also reconstruct either only style or content using those representations and corresponding model that produces them. <br/>

Just run this:<br/>
`reconstruct_image_from_representation.py --should_reconstruct_content <Bool> --should_visualize_representation <Bool>`
<br/><br/>
And that's it! --should_visualize_representation if set to True will visualize these for you<br/>
--should_reconstruct_content picks between style and content reconstruction

Here are some feature maps (relu1_1, VGG 19) as well as a Gram matrix (relu2_1, VGG 19) for Van Gogh's famous [starry night](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Starry_Night):

<p align="center">
<img src="data/examples/fms_gram/fm_vgg19_relu1_1_0005_resized.jpg" width="200px">
<img src="data/examples/fms_gram/fm_vgg19_relu1_1_0046_resized.jpg" width="200px">
<img src="data/examples/fms_gram/fm_vgg19_relu1_1_0058_resized.jpg" width="200px">
<img src="data/examples/fms_gram/gram_vgg19_relu2_1_0001.jpg" width="200px">
</p>

No more dark magic.

### Generating videos

Use the script `create_videos.sh` to download videos from the web (e.g from youtube) and to generate a stylized video from it.
You can pass the parameters directly to the CLI (see `create_videos.sh --help` for more information.) or by a file (see `config.cfg` for an example)
You need `youtube-dl` and `ffmpeg` installed to make it work.


Here is an example of what we can obtain.

![drone-gif](./data/examples/drone_gif/video-candy.gif)


## Acknowledgements

I found these repos useful: (while developing this one)
* [fast_neural_style](https://github.com/pytorch/examples/tree/master/fast_neural_style) (PyTorch, feed-forward method)
* [neural-style-tf](https://github.com/cysmith/neural-style-tf/) (TensorFlow, optimization method)
* [neural-style](https://github.com/anishathalye/neural-style/) (TensorFlow, optimization method)

I found some of the content/style images I was using here:
* [style/artistic images](https://www.rawpixel.com/board/537381/vincent-van-gogh-free-original-public-domain-paintings?sort=curated&mode=shop&page=1)
* [awesome figures pic](https://www.pexels.com/photo/action-android-device-electronics-595804/)
* [awesome bridge pic](https://www.pexels.com/photo/gray-bridge-and-trees-814499/)

Other images are now already classics in the NST world.

## Citation

If you find this code useful for your research, please cite the following:

```
@misc{Gordić2020nst,
  author = {Gordić, Aleksa},
  title = {pytorch-neural-style-transfer},
  year = {2020},
  publisher = {GitHub},
  journal = {GitHub repository},
  howpublished = {\url{https://github.com/gordicaleksa/pytorch-neural-style-transfer}},
}
```

## Connect with me

If you'd love to have some more AI-related content in your life :nerd_face:, consider:
* Subscribing to my YouTube channel [The AI Epiphany](https://www.youtube.com/c/TheAiEpiphany) :bell:
* Follow me on [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/aleksagordic/) and [Twitter](https://twitter.com/gordic_aleksa) :bulb:
* Follow me on [Medium](https://gordicaleksa.medium.com/) :books: :heart:

## Licence

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://github.com/gordicaleksa/pytorch-neural-style-transfer/blob/master/LICENCE)
